index_title=Information systeme
written_by=Ecrit par

general_information=Information général
os_on_arch=sur un
uptime=Uptime de
uptime_days=jours
uptime_hours=heures
uptime_minutes=minutes
loadavg_title=Occupation système
loadavg_graph=Occupation CPU
loadavg_proc=Occupation moyenne
loadavg_1=pour la dernière minute
loadavg_5=pour les dernière 5 minutes
loadavg_15=pour les dernière 15 minutes

memory_usage=Mémoire utilisée
main_memory=Mémoire principale
swap_memory=Memoire d'échange
mem_total=Totale
mem_used=Utilisée
mem_free=Libre
mem_shared=Partagée
mem_buffers=Tamporisée
mem_cache=Cache
mem_module=Module
mem_module_size=Taille
mem_module_depend=Dépendant de
mem_current_module=Modules en mémoire

overall_load=Occupation générale

irq_usage=IRQ utilisés
irq_device=Périphérique
irq_ioports=IO utilisés

network_load=Traffic réseau
network_nic=Interface
network_receive=Reçu
network_send=Envoyé
network_bytes=Octets
network_errors=Erreurs
network_dropped=Abandonnés
network_overruns=Dépassés
network_frame=Trames
network_carrier=Occupés
network_collisions=Collisions
network_connection=Connections actives
network_connection_protocol=Protocole
network_connection_recvq=A recevoir
network_connection_sendq=A envoyer
network_connection_localaddr=Destinaire
network_connection_foreignaddr=Destination
network_connection_state=État
network_who=Qui est connecté?
network_who_user=Usager
network_who_tty=TTY
network_who_from=Origine
network_who_login=Depuis
network_who_idle=Idle
network_who_jcpu=Jcpu
network_who_pcpu=Pcpu
network_who_what=Commande
network_opensockets=Ports ouverts
network_opensockets_active=Ports actifs
network_unixsockets=Ports Unix
network_unixsockets_protocol=Protocole
network_unixsockets_refcnt=RefCnt
network_unixsockets_flags=Drapeau
network_unixsockets_type=Type
network_unixsockets_state=État
network_unixsockets_inode=Inode
network_unixsockets_path=Chemin

fs_stat=Système de Fichiers
fs_mount=Systeme de fichier en utilisation
fs_mount_device=Type
fs_mount_dir=Répertoire
fs_mount_type=Systeme de fichier
fs_mount_option=Mode